README.md, before:

ultimate website cms
==================

Install from scratch on Mac OSX:
* install homebrew
* install node (brew install node)
* install yuglify: (in project root: npm install yuglify
        it will create a subdirectory node_modules/yuglify)
* install less: (in project root: npm install less,
        it will create a subdirectory node_modules/less)
* install virtualenv and virtualenvwrapper
* get source code from GitHub:
git clone git@github.com:lkleuver/windmillwindupsite.git
* create a local_settings.py file from sample_local_settings.py in the www subfolder
(or get the configuration file from Les or Chris)

1. create virtualenv by
~/ > mkvirtualenv crunchsite

2. add the following line
export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=www.settings
to the file 'postactivate' in the ~HOME/Envs/crunchsite/bin/ (or wherever your virtualenvs are stored)

This will automatically set the environmental variable DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE to the right value.

3. in the project home:
python manage.py syncdb --all
When asked, create a superuser

4. python manage.py migrate --fake

5. python manage.py runserver


TROUBLESHOOTING:
1. If you get the following error:
env: node: No such file or directory
then you can follow the instructions on
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20061529/sublime-text-coffeescript-build-system-env-node-no-such-file-or-directory
and do
> sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/node /usr/bin/node


2. If you ever have to move the location of CMS templates, use the following code to change it directly in the database:

from cms.models import Page
for page in Page.objects.filter(template__iendswith='html'):
    page.template = 'cmstemplates/{0}'.format(page.template)
    page.save()


3. Getting the error
column zinnia_entry.content_placeholder_id does not exist
LINE 1: ...tent_template", "zinnia_entry"."detail_template", "zinnia_en...

follow instructions here:
https://github.com/Fantomas42/django-blog-zinnia/issues/115
robertour commented on 8 Nov 2013:

$ python manage.py schemamigration zinnia --auto
$ python manage.py migrate zinnia

It's not completely clear to me how future migrations in zinnia will be applied...


4. Getting errors:
Menu AuthorMenu cannot be loaded. Please, make sure all its urls exist and can be resolved.
unclear:
https://github.com/django-blog-zinnia/cmsplugin-zinnia#tips-for-using-the-apphook
also, make sure the Zinnia Webhook is attached somewhere and that page is published!

Also, in Django CMS 3, all AppHooks needs to have an "Application instance name" to be "zinnia"


5. Getting Errors about comments.comments, follow
https://github.com/Fantomas42/django-blog-zinnia/issues/352
and comments out
 # 'django.contrib.comments',
in the applications, use newer app django_comments instead.




Push master branch to heroku:
1. git push heroku master


Run a local postgres server:
* install Postgresql:
~ >brew install postgresql
~ >mkdir ~/Postgresql
~ >pg_ctl init ~/Postgresql

start the server:
~ > pg_ctl start -D ~/Postgresql/ -l ~/Postgresql/logfile


to pull the heroku database to the localhost (using the database wwsite)
~/Sites/windmillwindupsite > heroku pg:pull DATABASE_URL crunchsite

* Daily backups of the HEROKU database are now kept on Amazon S3 (via another heroku app)

to push the local db to heroku, we first need to totally empty the heroku db:
(be careful! Pushing should never be necessary)
~ >heroku pg:reset HEROKU_POSTGRESQL_AQUA_URL
~ >heroku pg:push crunchsite HEROKU_POSTGRESQL_AQUA_URL

to restore a dump locally:
~ >pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl -d wwsite DUMPFILE.dump

to restore a backup from pgbackups on heroku:
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pgbackups#restoring-from-backup
the command will be something like the following:
heroku pgbackups:restore HEROKU_POSTGRESQL_BLACK b251

to reset team, registration and pickup data (or run other sql scripts):
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15237366/how-to-execute-a-sql-script-on-heroku
$ cat reset_all_team_data.sql | heroku pg:psql --app windmillwindupsite

locally:
$ psql -h localhost -d crunchsite -f sqlscripts/reset_all_team_data.sql



HEROKU Setup:
1. create new app
2. add add-ons: Postgresql, NewRelic, MemCachier, CloudAMQP, etc.
3. add the following configuration variables:
$ heroku config:add ON_HEROKU=1
    TWITTER_OAUTH_TOKEN = os.environ['TWITTER_OAUTH_TOKEN']
    TWITTER_OAUTH_SECRET = os.environ['TWITTER_OAUTH_SECRET']
    TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY = os.environ['TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY']
    TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET = os.environ['TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET']
    FLICKR_API_KEY = os.environ['FLICKR_API_KEY']
    FLICKR_API_SECRET = os.environ['FLICKR_API_SECRET']
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID       = os.environ['AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID']
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY   = os.environ['AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY']
    SECRET_KEY = os.environ['SECRET_KEY']
    EMAIL_HOST_USER = os.environ['SENDGRID_USERNAME']
    EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD = os.environ['SENDGRID_PASSWORD']


You can put the heroku site to DEBUG mode by setting
$ heroku config:set HEROKU_DEBUG=1
to disable debug mode:
$ heroku config:unset HEROKU_DEBUG



Django Compressor / Less / Heroku Installation instructions:
http://marklmiddleton.com/2013/using-less-with-django-on-heroku/

Commit message:

explain zinnia migration stuff in readme

README.md, after:

ultimate website cms
==================

Install from scratch on Mac OSX:
* install homebrew
* install node (brew install node)
* install yuglify: (in project root: npm install yuglify
        it will create a subdirectory node_modules/yuglify)
* install less: (in project root: npm install less,
        it will create a subdirectory node_modules/less)
* install virtualenv and virtualenvwrapper
* get source code from GitHub:
git clone git@github.com:lkleuver/windmillwindupsite.git
* create a local_settings.py file from sample_local_settings.py in the www subfolder
(or get the configuration file from Les or Chris)

1. create virtualenv by
~/ > mkvirtualenv crunchsite

2. add the following line
export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=www.settings
to the file 'postactivate' in the ~HOME/Envs/crunchsite/bin/ (or wherever your virtualenvs are stored)

This will automatically set the environmental variable DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE to the right value.

3. in the project home:
python manage.py syncdb --all
When asked, create a superuser

4. python manage.py migrate --fake

5. python manage.py runserver


TROUBLESHOOTING:
1. If you get the following error:
env: node: No such file or directory
then you can follow the instructions on
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20061529/sublime-text-coffeescript-build-system-env-node-no-such-file-or-directory
and do
> sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/node /usr/bin/node


2. If you ever have to move the location of CMS templates, use the following code to change it directly in the database:

from cms.models import Page
for page in Page.objects.filter(template__iendswith='html'):
    page.template = 'cmstemplates/{0}'.format(page.template)
    page.save()


3. Getting the error
column zinnia_entry.content_placeholder_id does not exist
LINE 1: ...tent_template", "zinnia_entry"."detail_template", "zinnia_en...

follow instructions here:
https://github.com/Fantomas42/django-blog-zinnia/issues/115
robertour commented on 8 Nov 2013:
$ python manage.py schemamigration zinnia --auto
$ python manage.py migrate zinnia

It's not completely clear to me how future migrations in zinnia will be applied...

This also does not work on heroku, where the migrations cannot be written to the zinnia package once the code is
uploaded. So, we as indicated in the github thread above, I created another migration module for zinnia. It's
used by putting the following into settings.py
SOUTH_MIGRATION_MODULES = {
    'zinnia': 'migrations.zinnia',
}
* I first commented out
ZINNIA_ENTRY_BASE_MODEL = 'cmsplugin_zinnia.placeholder.EntryPlaceholder'
and created a new initial migration for zinnia, resulting in
migrations/zinnia/0001_initialy.py
* Then I commented in the line above again
* and created a new schemamigration for zinnia, resulting in
migrations/zinnia/0002_initialy.py

By committing those as part of the project, I could now apply those migrations (in particular the second one)
also on heroku, thereby deleting all the ghost-migrations from the original zinnia project.
I guess in the future, I will have to insert all future zinnia migrations into my own
migrations/zinnia/...
folder.



4. Getting errors:
Menu AuthorMenu cannot be loaded. Please, make sure all its urls exist and can be resolved.
unclear:
https://github.com/django-blog-zinnia/cmsplugin-zinnia#tips-for-using-the-apphook
also, make sure the Zinnia Webhook is attached somewhere and that page is published!

Also, in Django CMS 3, all AppHooks needs to have an "Application instance name" to be "zinnia"


5. Getting Errors about comments.comments, follow
https://github.com/Fantomas42/django-blog-zinnia/issues/352
and comments out
 # 'django.contrib.comments',
in the applications, use newer app django_comments instead.




Push master branch to heroku:
1. git push heroku master


Run a local postgres server:
* install Postgresql:
~ >brew install postgresql
~ >mkdir ~/Postgresql
~ >pg_ctl init ~/Postgresql

start the server:
~ > pg_ctl start -D ~/Postgresql/ -l ~/Postgresql/logfile


to pull the heroku database to the localhost (using the database wwsite)
~/Sites/windmillwindupsite > heroku pg:pull DATABASE_URL crunchsite

* Daily backups of the HEROKU database are now kept on Amazon S3 (via another heroku app)

to push the local db to heroku, we first need to totally empty the heroku db:
(be careful! Pushing should never be necessary)
~ >heroku pg:reset HEROKU_POSTGRESQL_AQUA_URL
~ >heroku pg:push crunchsite HEROKU_POSTGRESQL_AQUA_URL

to restore a dump locally:
~ >pg_restore --verbose --clean --no-acl -d wwsite DUMPFILE.dump

to restore a backup from pgbackups on heroku:
https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pgbackups#restoring-from-backup
the command will be something like the following:
heroku pgbackups:restore HEROKU_POSTGRESQL_BLACK b251

to reset team, registration and pickup data (or run other sql scripts):
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15237366/how-to-execute-a-sql-script-on-heroku
$ cat reset_all_team_data.sql | heroku pg:psql --app windmillwindupsite

locally:
$ psql -h localhost -d crunchsite -f sqlscripts/reset_all_team_data.sql



HEROKU Setup:
1. create new app
2. add add-ons: Postgresql, NewRelic, MemCachier, CloudAMQP, etc.
3. add the following configuration variables:
$ heroku config:add ON_HEROKU=1
    TWITTER_OAUTH_TOKEN = os.environ['TWITTER_OAUTH_TOKEN']
    TWITTER_OAUTH_SECRET = os.environ['TWITTER_OAUTH_SECRET']
    TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY = os.environ['TWITTER_CONSUMER_KEY']
    TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET = os.environ['TWITTER_CONSUMER_SECRET']
    FLICKR_API_KEY = os.environ['FLICKR_API_KEY']
    FLICKR_API_SECRET = os.environ['FLICKR_API_SECRET']
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID       = os.environ['AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID']
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY   = os.environ['AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY']
    SECRET_KEY = os.environ['SECRET_KEY']
    EMAIL_HOST_USER = os.environ['SENDGRID_USERNAME']
    EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD = os.environ['SENDGRID_PASSWORD']


You can put the heroku site to DEBUG mode by setting
$ heroku config:set HEROKU_DEBUG=1
to disable debug mode:
$ heroku config:unset HEROKU_DEBUG



Django Compressor / Less / Heroku Installation instructions:
http://marklmiddleton.com/2013/using-less-with-django-on-heroku/
